now let's stay with Israel's military
campaign in Gaza and look at the
protests against it that are sweeping
across college campuses in the US
Nationwide rallies during which there
have been hundreds of arrests are
showing no sign of stopping at uccla a
pro Palestinian encampment has grown in
size in recent days as has a group of
pro-israeli counter protesters on Sunday
there were skirmishes between the pro
Palestinian and pro-israel groups after
a barrier separating the two sides was
breached let's hear from a protester
there we heard about the counter protest
showing up uh they're trying to show up
saying that um this this part is just
full of hatred um so we're just here to
counter them uh we want to show support
to the US protesters who have been here
um in their cabins
uh well the White House has insisted
demonstrations must remain peaceful
here's the National Security Council
spokesman John Kirby speaking to ABC we
certainly respect the right of peaceful
protest uh people should have the the
ability to to air their their views and
to share their perspectives publicly but
it has to be peaceful uh we'll leave it
to local authorities to determine um how
these protests are managed but we want
them to be peaceful protests and
obviously we don't want to see anybody
hurt uh in the process of peacefully
protesting uh but again the president
understands
that well the students are calling for
their universities to boycott company
ianes and individuals with ties to
Israel major protest camps and
demonstrations were first seen at
Colombia University in New York since
then though they've spread across the
United States take a look at this it
shows the universities with the biggest
protests the University of Southern
California has canceled its graduation
ceremony on what it says as safety
grounds in Austin Texas the governor
ordered state troopers to arrest
demonstrators there have also been
hundreds of arrests at universities in
Texas Atlanta California and Virginia
these pictures you're seeing here are
from Virginia
Tech well our North America
correspondent nomia ikbal is currently
in Columbia University in New York for
us and nomia Columbia University
administrators have ordered students
participating in the campus encampment
there to disband or face disciplinary
action have they disbanded it looks like
judging from what's Happening behind you
that they
haven't they haven't uh yes the
encampment is behind me and students Got
a notification around about midday to
say that there was this call for them to
disband by 2: p.m that came from the
president of the University president
shafik who's under Fire uh by students
uh because of the way Riot police went
in last week uh she's also Under Fire
from right-wing politicians who say
she's not doing enough to stop these uh
protests on campus which they have
claimed anti-semitic something that the
pro Palestinian protesters have
completely denied but what's happening
at the moment is that you've got uh
students and they're not part of the
encampment they are other students who
have joined in support of the students
inside the encampment and they're sort
of circling around if we can just have a
look that they some of them are walking
around um and they've been chanting the
demands uh which is Boycott divest and
sanction uh sort of outlining what it is
the students want essentially the
students want uh Columbia University and
this is the same demands that students
are making at other protests around the
country they want their institutions to
effectively cut economic and academic
ties with Israeli
institutions and I've been speaking to
students all weekend and they say all
those demands have to be met but the
president of this University today said
that the negotiations have uh failed uh
which means those demands aren't being
met and they and the University
president the administ ators want the
students to essentially clear out they
have said they're going nowhere and just
as we were coming in we saw the police
asking up barricades we saw one police
officer with zip ties I did ask them
what is the plan do they plan to go in
and arrest students again of course they
they said no comment uh so right now the
situation is you know students have have
been very kind of the ones I've been
speaking to not just here but NYU as
well a campus that's a university that's
30 minutes away they are feeling tense
but also they are adamant that they're
not going anywhere until their demands
are met but the university wants them
out particularly by May the 15th here
which is when it's graduation day